talking about outhouses. Yeah. And you said that
the university would replace them. That's right,
rebuild them and all that. I don't know. They may
have taken them out there. I just don't know. But
the bonfire, as you know it now, was originally
held on the drill field. But when they made the
movie, we've never been licked.
They helped build that. They bought the center
pole. They bought a whole bunch of poles and put on
there, and we carried other stuff to make it up. And
a bonfire was held there, and Bill Stern, the NBC
sports announcer, covered that bonfire because
the Thanksgiving Day game was going to be, it
wasn't on TV, I guess. I guess it was on radio, but
because they didn't have TV. Were you here when
that movie was made? Yes. Describe any of your
recollection of that, please. Well, I was in two
scenes in it. Barton was marching into Savisa
Hall, and the lead guy, I've forgotten his name, he
was supposed to be in that outfit, and somebody was
supposed to trip him. We were supposed to walk over
him. and it was a stuntman, and we didn't step on the
guy, you know, and they made us redo that until we'd
step on him. Then they had a scene in Sbisa, a dance,
where there was supposed to be a fight, and we were
in, I was in one of the crowd in there, And the thing I
remember most about that, of course, was we never
really ever had a fight in the dance hall. And we all
had to take off our shoes so we wouldn't make noise
because they were recording it. And I don't know.
How long were those movie people around? Do you
remember? They were here for a pretty good while.
Was it months or weeks? Months. There was more than
a month. And I presume that y'all were pretty
excited about Well, everybody, of course, wanted
to meet the two gals. And Gail, the cadet
commander, was the escort of one of them at one of
the ball games, and got on there. Martha
O'Driscoll, and she was a blonde. I can't think of
the other. That brown-headed gal's name. I know.
We were all— about seeing them out at Franklin's
and what have you. Did you get to see the movie soon
after it was made? Or were you gone by then? I think
we were gone. I don't think I saw it until after I
came back. I was in the service because, no, that's
another thing. No, it was after I came back. Now,
you may have seen it. I don't know. You probably
weren't on campus at this time, but where were you
when you heard the news of D-Day?
You were at Fort Benning, Georgia. Not D-Day,
V-E-D. No, D-Day. D-Day, I had just started OCS in
Fort Benning, Georgia. In fact, I've got the
graduation program for that, and it started
December 7, 1944.
June, not June 7. June 7. Right. Not June 7. Then
another important memory. Where were you when you
heard the news that President Roosevelt had died?
Most of us. Camp Shelby, Mississippi. Camp Shelby
is where we were when that happened. We all
wondered what was going to happen and how Harry was
going to take over, you know. Because you're a
little older than I, but most of us didn't remember
any president before Roosevelt, and we didn't
know who the vice president was very much. Let's
see. All right, you come back to the campus when?
After the war? No, but when did you get back? I came
back, landed, I guess it was in, was it 45? Did I
start over here? You came back in 46. I guess it was
46. I landed on Juneteenth in San Francisco, and we
got on a troop train, and they started down here,
and they took us to Fort Sam Houston. I had called
Dolores from San Francisco. We spent one night in
San Francisco and told her I was going to be in San
Houston at San Antonio. But I wasn't sure just what
day. I said, it's going to take us probably two days
to get there on a train. And the minute we came into
Texas, the Texans began to bail off of that train.
But not a one of them missed. When the train got to
San Antonio, they were all there waiting for us.
Anyway, I got a hold of her and And then I came back to
A&M, I guess that September, didn't I? Because I
drove back and forth from Brenham for a while.
Couldn't find a place to live over here, so we drove
back and forth, and that was before you could, you
know, the road wasn't paved coming through the
bottom. That's when you came through Navasota and
all. About how long a drive did it, in time, did it
take? Well, we were out a little over an hour. Now,
if we could go through the bottom, it was a terrible
road, and you could cut off a little bit of mileage,
not much time. What was your, you and your fellow
veterans, how did your attitude about classwork
change when you came back?
Of course, we were more serious about education.
Now, some of the guys that came back had not been
commissioned, and they wanted to get back in the
Corps. And that was one of the few protests that I
know that I participated in was when Gil Gilchrist
was president. I don't even remember what the Sam
Hilley did. But we didn't like it. And we were going
to get him fired. We, the veterans. And we met in the
old assembly hall, and we got a couple of guys from
the state legislature to come over. And that
assembly hall was packed, and people were on the
outside. I couldn't get in. I was on the outside
looking in. And bless their heart, the guys that
were leading the veterans, those politicians
turned them inside out. I mean, not inside out, but
they had them spun so anyway, that was the end of it,
yeah. Now, you were not in the Corps. No, not then.
Because you had been commissioned. Right. And
then, do you all finally locate a place to live over
here? Yeah. Brian Field closed. And got housing by
points, how long you've been in the service.
That's right. And I finally, they finally had some
quarters out there that we could move into. They
were tar paper shacks. You heard them talk about
the annex, but anyway, we had two rooms and a long
hall. I mean, two bedrooms, but the, except for us
and the other apartments, the walls didn't go all
the way to the ceiling or to the floor. and a gas
burner in there with an oven on it. My dad got one of
the men that worked for the company to bring out a
few things over here in the truck, and we pulled up
in front of that tar paper shack, and the man that
was driving it and was helping us, he said, does
your dad know that you're moving into this? No. But
I breezed in there, and there was no kitchen, and
there was no bathroom. And I said, Perry, where is
the bathroom? And he said, well, it's just right
down this sidewalk here, and it's called a
lottery. We were there two weeks, moved into
College View. Yeah. All right, was College View
filled with veterans? Yes. And it was, at that
time, it was filled with veterans. And they had gas
burners, but they did have a sink that hung on the
wall, and they had ice boxes. And they had one bed
that was kind of like a double bed, and then they had
a cot.
Well, when we first moved in, we rented it, and then
we began to get some, and I could get it. And if you
had it unrented... $24 a month. $24 a month. How
adequate was the GI Bill to help pay your expenses?
Well, of course, I think they get $90 a month. But
they paid everything at A&M. My books, drafting
equipment, slide rules, anything we needed. And
I'm sure the profs had us buying books maybe that we
didn't need. I don't know. we just signed a voucher
and the government took care of that and they paid
us $90 a month and and so what they paid for the rent
and what little we could make I couldn't I worked
some but they didn't work a whole lot because there
just weren't too many there's so many people
looking for jobs there weren't a lot around uh and
Dolores was a very sharp shopper and uh And they'd
come, some of the older, other vets would be very
enterprising, and they'd come through the place
with a pool cart selling vegetables and eggs, you
know, and a lot cheaper than you could buy. We
finally decided we'd make us a commissary in a
garage, and it worked pretty good for a while. So
what it was was a... A bulk buying association?
That's right, it was a mutual aid. If I were to look
at your transcript after the war grades compared
to before the war grades, would I see any
difference? Yeah. You were a better student after
the war? Yeah. Were you and your veteran friends
aware that any of the faculty may have changed the
way they did things with these veterans in class?
Because you were as old as some of the teachers,
weren't you? No, I never had a graduate assistant
teaching. I
wasn't aware, and some of them may have been that
got there, but
All of my teachers, professors, I never had a
graduate student. Al Chalk and all these others.
Of course, I've already mentioned a bunch of them
that we had, but I just don't remember a graduate
student. Did you, as a veteran and his wife, did you
all go to many student activities during those
post-war years? Well, when she was married, after
we were married, they had a free movie at Grove, and
they had dances at Grove. We went to that several
times. Of course, you may remember I had a son and a
baby on the way.
So you were busy pretty well all the time. Did you go
to Silver Taps after the war? I was wondering if it
may have had a different meaning. We had silver
taps, but the RVs were not involved in it. And
everybody shut down the lights and pulled the
blinds. And the outfit the guy lived in walked down
and stood as a formation by Sully, and the buglers
blew silver taps.
Let's see now, after the war, didn't Eisenhower
make a famous visit here? Yes. Do you remember
that? Or was that, were you gone before he got here?
No. I think I was still here because I remember him
coming in the main gate, that's out on the east on
the East Gate, as you call, and he was escorted by
the cavalry, the vehicle was, and they were
carrying, they were mounted and they had lances.
They pretty soon did away with the cavalry, too.
But I think, I remember he made a, and he talked, I
think Eisenhower was here twice, maybe just once.
Right, you graduate when? I graduated in August of
1947.
Was there a commencement then? No. So did you ever
go across the stage and officially? I got two
degrees from A&M, a bachelor and a master's, and I
never ever participated in a ceremony here. I
participated in a military school graduation,
but not here. All right, let's see. You didn't do a
final review. I did a final review. When? This was
when they took the class of 44 and 45 in at the same
time. Describe it. Well, the final review then was
a lot different than it is now. We farmed up just as
they used to still do, except it was on the drill
field. And we marched around, and the seniors led
us. We came right back around and we reformed. We
didn't break and go to the dormitory and change
clothes or anything else. The only thing was you
turned around and the fish got to drop their
handle. And then the seniors formed a line and
moved across. Then as now, the juniors, of course
they were still wearing stripes and they took them
around. But they were all, almost all of them were
book privates in the Army, because that's what we
were wearing then. And they took them around, and
then they came across in the class of 46 with their
little stragglers made the last one. I think it
was, I don't remember whether it was raining or had
rained, but it was, it was, that was very memorable
and very emotional for all of us, because we knew we
were leaving right after that. When you graduate,
what's your first employment after? Teaching
school in Brenham. How well prepared did you feel
A&M had made you for that first task? I thought I was
pretty well prepared. Of course, I taught
mechanical drawing and shop, and I had another one
I called broadening and finding, and then I taught
general math, which was for the, at that time, the
high school had five grades. They had eight, nine,
10, 11, and 12. The ninth grade, if the kids weren't
good enough to take algebra, They had general
math, and I taught general math. He must have been
equipped very, very well, because the students
really thought he was good. Yeah. Right. So now
when do you come back to A&M as a staff member? In
March of 51. And what was your task? I'm sorry? What
did you do? That's when I became a military
counselor. Right. Describe that. I'm sorry?
Describe that task. Well, I
can't remember the colonel's name that was here at
that time.
It may have been Boatner. That was Boatner.
Because they assigned me certain dorms to be, and
since I was field artillery, I got a lot of the field
artillery dormitories, also coast artillery
dormitories. And my duties were to discipline the
kids in the corps, to inspect their rooms or see
that they were cleaned and in proper shape. And
then I'd pull my regular duty every so often.
They'd be there at night until midnight, which I
would make two rounds, one right
after CQ and the other one just after taps. And
there were several comical incidents happened in
that instance. And two of them I remember very
vividly, and she remembers one of them very
vividly. I was making my rounds, and I was over by
dorm three, I guess it was. And I looked over, and
there was a guy standing outside a window in dorm
two and just laughing. And then pretty soon, he'd
run inside. And then he'd come back, and he'd just
laugh. And I got around over there, and I walked in.
Water up to my ankles. And I said, where did all of
this water come from? What water, sir? Well, then
later on, on another incident, I walked by, and
there's arm two to arm four, as I came by it out of the
fourth floor. and my mattress, another mattress,
the beds, the desk, and the chairs, and by now I'm on
my way up to the fourth floor. Boy, I got up in a quick
minute. The bull hit the fan, everybody knows it.
Quiet as a church. I said, I got the first sergeant,
and I said, what's going on here? He said, nothing,
sir. And I said, who threw out the, trashed out this
room? What room, sir? And I walked right down and
said, open this damn door. And he opened it, and
there were guys' clothes in there, and that was
about it. I had them go back downstairs and pull all
that stuff in them, back up to the room. While I'm
doing that, one of the kids comes over and he says,
Major Perry, your office is on fire. My office was
over in dorm five. Well, I went over, my office
wasn't on fire. But somebody had gone in there, and
the only thing I could think of is they, somehow
they set black shoe polish on fire. And this black
smoke in the soot was all over that place. You
couldn't put your hand anywhere. And I, oh boy, I
was upset.
I had to call Dolores and I said, well, I'll tell you
what, I'm gonna be late coming in because somebody
has really fixed my room up. I'm gonna find out who
it is or my name is not Howard Perry. Well, about
three o'clock in the morning, I guess, somewhere
like that, I walk in and I quietly open the back
door, tell him what you said. I said, hey, what's
your name? And he said, oh, hell, John Doe. But when
I got back to the office the next morning, it was all
clean. So I don't know who did it. It may have
been... Weldon Kruger was in school, and Perry had
coached him in high school and taught him. And I
think Weldon cleaned all that up. He may have had
someone, because it took a lot to do it. Weldon was a
good Brenham boy. Yeah. I got him to come to A&M. In
fact, I was on a group that selected him as cadet
colonel, but I didn't get to see him. I was gone
before he became cadet colonel. Let's digress on
that. As far as you know, what has been the
comparative lifetime success rate of the key
student leaders at A&M, corps commanders and so
forth? Have they gone on to be successful? Most of
them that I know have gone on, and a lot of people
that were not prominent in their schoolwork, I
mean, without they weren't high achievers or
didn't have a lot of rank, were very successful in
their other lives. And they all based it on their
education at A&M, just like everybody does.
There's only one guy that, and this was after I left
the Corps, when I came back again, but that's
another story. But it was a guy who was very
prominent in the Corps, and he then became mayor of
San Antonio, and got into trouble, and then fell on
the cabinet.
I think he was a colonel when he was here, Boatner,
later became newsworthy in Korea. Describe him in
personality and style. Okay. Colonel Boatner
was, he was a true bull of the woods. He always said
exactly what was on his mind. He moved from
Military science people all moved down to
Foster and anyway, the one there by Leggett,
across the street from Leggett, not on the same
side of the street from Leggett, Ross Hall. They
tore Foster down. Ross Hall was standing. We
called it the Pentagon, the small man's Pentagon.
ran the place with an iron hand, and they had two
little couple of things on him. They had two small
cannons out in front, you know, and had a little
grass they were trying to keep growing, and there
was a freshman out there, and he was looking at one
of these guns when Boatner walks up. He says,
cadet, what are you doing? He said, I'm looking at
this field artillery piece. And he said, what do
you think of it? Oh, sir, I think the field
artillery is the best branch of the service.
Boatner was infantry. He said, well, get the hell
off the grass. We always knew when somebody was
going to catch it because he always raised the
windows in his office. And what was the
secretary's name? Marie, no, that guy in green,
oh, golly. She was the secretary for the
Commonwealth for a long time.
Fern Adams called her Ms. Newley. Oh, you're
talking
about Jo. We'd see her leaving. Some of the others
cleared out of that we knew. That he was going to
chew somebody out. And he would use some very
colorful language. Well, somewhere before I
graduated, I mean, left A&M, working there, the
seniors decided they were going to rebel, and so
they said they were going to turn in their buttons,
and they were going to march to the Pentagon and
turn their buttons in. Boatner met them on the
street. Halt! What do you all want? They said,
we're going to resign from the Corps. He said,
well, take your buttons off and I'll take them.
Boy, they all looked at him, you know, and a couple
walked up and he said, you're going to lose your
contract, too. And boy, that broke the thing up
right quick. I don't know what they were marching
for, but they had some of them. He was very strong,
and I think that's why they picked him to go to
Korea. They made him a brigadier after he got
there. So you were, in today's slang, you were a TAC
officer. In today's slang, yeah. For how long?
Well, from 51 to, when did I go to work? I went to work
out at the National Guard Armory, I guess. I was
there about four years. Four years. Were there
any? Three and a half years. Who were the key campus
administrators during that four years? Well,
Benny Zinn was one of them, and Dean Brooks was the
dean of the college. Joe David. Who? Joe Davis. He
was assistant commandant and then actually
became commandant for a while. That was after I
left, I think. Who was president? Well, we had two
presidents. One of them's name was Wayne, I think.
That's not right. That's not right. Because
Morgan wasn't here yet, was he? Morgan came in, I
think, just before. He replaced another guy that
replaced Gib Gilchrist. Okay, okay. I think
Morgan was here. Yeah, I think Morgan was here, but
there was somebody in between he and Gib
Gilchrist. All right, so then you go to the armory,
and then you come back to A&M when? I came back to A&M
in 1963. What was your task then? I was a civilian
counselor. Oh, I know a question I meant to ask.
What was your compensation? What was your pay that
first job when you came, what, in 51? Do you
remember what that pay was? I don't remember in 51.
I was teaching school. I started out at $200 a
month. By the time I left over there, I was getting
$240. That was before taxes. So you got a big, when
you came over here at $400. That's the reason I
came, yeah. All right, now you come back in 63. 63.
And what's your task? I'm called a civilian
counselor because we had a lot of civilians. You
were a counselor. Yeah, civilian student
counselor, because they had a lot of civilian
students then. And what were, describe the duties
of a civilian counselor. Well, they were similar
to what they were as a TAC officer.
We kept, we, you're dang right I checked them. I
didn't have to, but their rooms were supposed to be
clean. And all of us inspected the room. We didn't
look in every room every day. And we supervised and
hired the dorm daddies. And we kept personnel
files on all of the kids in our dormitories. Now,
when I first came back, I had Walton Hall and some of
the new area, new, new area. And I kept, I kept,
Records on that. So you're on board when the Corps
becomes volunteer. Yes. How did that change? I'm
sorry. It had already become volunteer when I got
here. But the big growth in the number, I presume
the civilian student body grew rapidly. Well,
pretty rapidly. The core began to diminish a
little bit because the kids that finished there
were coming in. When it first became validated,
the first two years were mandatory, then you could
be a civilian. And I'm not sure of the dates on that.
Yeah, the civilian population was pretty good.
And civilian students were living where? Well,
they lived in Hart Hall, they lived in Leggett,
they lived in Mitchell. They lived in Milner, they
lived in Walton Hall, and one of the dorms in the
Nunu area, and the Corps had the rest of the place.
And you civilian counselors reported to whom?
Benny Zinn. Describe Mr. Zinn. Wonderful guy. He
was even-tempered, he was white-headed, he was so
friendly. To us. And I think Doris knows him as well
as I do because when she worked out there, he was one
of her bosses. But she couldn't work after I went to
A&M. She had to give her job up. And
he was a wonderful guy. And he took Penny... He
was dean of students at one time and they
mistreated, they held Penny responsible for a lot
of things they did and so they did away with the dean
of students for a little while.